## Part 1: Parsing Slow Loris

Slow Loris is an interpreted language running on the Python VM. This means it is basically comprised of two things: a **parser** and an **evaluator**, both implemented in Python v2.7.

### The Parser

The job of the parser is to convert the program into something the evaluator understands. The evaluator evaluates whatever the parser produces, and returns the result. Here is a nice diagram of how Slow Loris text is converted into machine calculations:

```

            +-----------+        +-------------+
    text    |           |  AST   |             |  result
  +-------->|  parser   |+------>|  evaluator  |+-------->
            |           |        |             |
            +-----------+        +-------------+
```

The format produced by the parser is called the *abstract syntax tree* (AST) of the program.

### Our AST

So, what does the AST look like? Let us look back at our last example:

```python
>>> from slowloris.parser import parse
>>> program = """
...   (def fact 
...       ;; Factorial function
...       (lambda (n) 
...           (if (eq n 0) 
...               1 ; Factorial of 0 is 1, and we deny 
...                 ; the existence of negative numbers
...               (* n (fact (- n 1))))))
... """))
>>> parse(program)
['def', 'fact', ['lambda', ['n'], ['if', ['eq', 'n', 0], 1, ['*', 'n', ['fact', ['-', 'n', 1]]]]]]
```

The AST, then, is created as follows:

- Comments are removed.
- Symbols are represented as strings.
    + `"foo"` parses to `"foo"`
- The symbols `True` and `False` are represented by Python's `True` and `False`, respectively.
    + `"True"` parses to `True`
- Integers are represented as Python integers.
    + `"42"` parses to `42`
- The Lisp list expressions are represented as Python lists.
    `"(foo False 100)"` parses to `["foo", False, 100]`
- Nested expressions are parsed accordingly.
    + `"((+ (- 1 2) (* (- 4 1) 42)))"` parses to `[['+', ['-', 1, 2], ['*', ['-', 4, 1], 42]]]`

### Code Structure

The parsing is done in `parser.py`, starting with the master `parse` function. First, the comments are removed from the code. Then the text is parsed into the AST. Finally, the code text is converted into data types.

### What's next?

Go to [part 2](2.md) to learn about the Slow Loris evaluator.
