## Part 7: Standard Libraries

### What is a Standard Library?

A standard library in any programming language is a collection functions and tools considered so useful they are always available to programmers. In Slow Loris, all standard libraries are written in Slow Loris itself, like any other library you might use. In `slowloris/stdlib` there are several files containing tools useful in a wide variety of programs.

### Popular Standard Libraries

#### Logical Operators

These operators allow you to combine boolean values into other boolean values. For instance, instead of just:

```lisp
(if boolean "True Result" "False Result")
```

You can combine two booleans and test of they are both `True`:

```lisp
(if (and boolean1 boolean2) "True Result" "False Result")
```

Slow Loris includes the four most common logical operators:

 * `and`
 * `or`
 * `xor`
 * `not`

#### Exceptions

It is an important feature of any modern language for the developer to be able to throw an exception if an undesirable situation has been reached. Slow Loris offers only one basic type of exception (`LispError`), which can be raised like this:

```lisp
(raise "Give some description of the undesirable state.")
```

#### List Functions

Because lists are so important to all Lisp languages, a large collection of list operations are included in the standard libraries. These include:

 * `sum` - Assumes a list of numbers and adds all the elements of a list of numbers.
 * `length` - returns the number of elements in the list
 * `append` - returns two lists combined sequently into one
 * `filter` - returns a subset of a list where all the elements meet some logical criteria
 * `map` - returns a list where a function has been applied to all the elements of another list
 * `foldleft` - reduces a list based on a provided function
 * `reverse` - returns a list with the opposite order of a provided list
 * `range` - returns a list of numbers from a given start to a given end, with steps equal two 1.0
 * `range-step` - returns a list, like range, but with steps equal to a provided value

#### List Sorting Functions

Slow Loris includes by default two different list-sorting algorithms: Quick Sort and Insert Sort. Both will take a list of numbers or letters and yield a sorted list of those same elements in ascending order. Though Insert Sort is included, Quick Sort will almost always be a more preferable choice. These sorting algorithms can be called like this:

```lisp
(quick-sort '(1 7 3 5 1 9 4 2 0 0))
(insert-sort '(1 7 3 5 1 9 4 2 0 0))
```
